if one says the king of Cretaceous North
America many will probably first think
of the T-Rex thanks to its widespread
reputation in fact some believe that the
T-Rex and this Tyrannosaur relatives
were the only carnivores to have a go
after ruling Cretaceous North America
however there was another king that
wasn't the T-Rex nor Tyrannosaur rather
a carcarchedanta sword it was a behemoth
of a carnivore that ravaged the lands
and was actually the second largest
theropod to exist in North America
during the Cretaceous Period second only
to the T-Rex and it was the
Acrocanthosaurus as the runner-up to the
T-Rex the Acrocanthosaurus was without a
doubt a force to be reckoned with when
its remains were first found in the
1940s it was clear that it was a Giants
but it was only during the 1990s when
more complete specimens were located
that its size was really understood and
based on the specimens paleontologists
estimated that the largest individuals
could reach 11.5 meters or 38 feet in
length making them equal to and even
larger than some famous T-Rex specimens
like Titus and Stan although due to it
being more narrow and less robust the
Acrocanthosaurus was lighter than the
T-Rex though how much lighter is
uncertain originally paleontologists
believed it to be around 4.5 tons while
recent Studies have provided a weight
range of between 3.6 and 5.5 tons and
some think it could have been even
heavier possibly reaching more than 6
tons the immense size of
Acrocanthosaurus did not only make it a
fascinating creature but also the apex
predator of its time allowing it to hunt
a mix of prey which paleontologists
believe included ornithopods and
kylosaurs and most interestingly
sauropods this belief that was a giant
killer came from a discovered sauropod
that had teeth marks on his bones which
resembled those of Acrocanthosaurus it
is thought that it specifically hunted
the sauropod astrodon and possibly the
enormous sauroposeidon though it would
have almost certainly only targeted
vulnerable or younger individuals the
Acrocanthosaurus tackling such large
prey led to questions on how he was able
to achieve such a feat and from the
discovered bite marks it was obvious
that its mouth was a part of the answer
it was filled with numerous large
dagger-like teeth that were serrated and
curved perfect for cutting deep into
flesh and a help that had a powerful
bite with one study reporting that it
could administer 16 900 Newtons of force
at its maximum making it eight times
stronger than the bite of a black bear
this powerful bite was thanks to its
massive skull which could reach 1.23
meters or 4 feet long yet although the
school was indeed huge it was still
easily wieldable as it was narrow and
sported a large opening in front of the
eyes which made the head lighter than
the skulls of other large theropods
relatively speaking this allowed the
Acrocanthosaurus to easily move its
mouth when attacking prey a useful
feature though despite the clear
deadliness of its bite it wasn't enough
to make taking down sauropods easy which
is why the acro can thesaurus had
another asset its forelims
paleontologists noticed that they were
well built and would have been highly
muscled furthermore the arm bones didn't
fit together in many of the joints
indicating the presence of a lot of
cartilage which led researchers to
believe that the Acrocanthosaurus used
its arms a lot and since they were not
long enough to be used for Locomotion it
was decided that they were most likely
utilized for killing and this belief was
backed by the presence of three
razor-sharp claws on each hand with the
first digit having the largest claw
however despite the vast majority
agreeing that the arms were used for
hunting exactly what their specific role
was is uncertain and this is actually
the same case for its mouth which has
led to multiple theories on his hunting
methods the most accepted ones so far is
that because the arms didn't extend that
much the acrocanthusaurus would have
attacked head first latching on to prey
with its massive Jaws where it would
then follow up by hooking the victim
with its claws to prevent any escapes
additionally it's thought that with
medium-sized prey it would pull the
animal towards its body with his arms
while with larger prey it would pull
itself towards the animal where it would
then deliver fatal bites there is also
some more creative ideas on how it
hunted including that it would push
animals over with its arms however this
is unlikely as its legs were robust and
well designed for maintaining balance
indicating it fought prey that was
standing and moving around and if the
killer bite and lethal claws weren't
enough then it's a good thing that some
paleontologists believe that the
Acrocanthosaurus was a pack Hunter this
conjecture stems from the famous Glen
Rose trackway where theropod tracks
belong into multiple individuals were
found moving the same way as 12
sauropods it has long been thought that
these tracks were of Acrocanthosaurus
Origins leading to the idea was a pack
Hunter yet while certainly possible a
few paleontologists are not convinced
pointing out that some of the footprints
overlap and that none of the sauropod's
footprints show signs of changing Gates
which could be expected from an animal
being attacked however even if it wasn't
a pack Hunter it still agreed that the
Acrocanthosaurus was unusually good at
tackling prey larger than itself and its
unusualness doesn't end here as it
possessed another highly unique aspects
one that is blatantly obvious and
partially led to its Fame its neural
spines these elongated spines were
located on his vertebrae running down
its neck back hips and part of the tail
there were more than twice the length of
the vertebrae from which they were
attached to and while this isn't as
Extreme as the spinosaurus spines which
were multiple times longer it still
garnered the interest of many and even
led to its name Acrocanthosaurus which
means the high spine lizard known as
exactly sure what these spines look like
in real life if they led to a small sail
or hump though in more recent times it's
been noted that the spines would have
packed quite a bit of muscle leading to
the consensus that his appearance would
have been more like a hump or Ridge and
regarding this purpose scientists think
it could have have been used for
anything from communication to
temperature control fat storage or even
for intimidation against Rivals whatever
they were used for the neural spies were
surely no inhibitor to the success of
the Acrocanthosaurus who was the main
ruler of North America during the middle
and late stages of the early Cretaceous
mainly residing in Texas Oklahoma and
Wyoming although it may have had an even
more extensive range as partial evidence
of his presence has been found in
Maryland also since it was the largest
carnivore around at the time the
Acrocanthosaurus was able to extend into
a mix of environments yet it showed a
preference for habitats close to the
water as in Texas it lived in
floodplains and mud flats that were
close to the coastline during this time
Texas was also partially flooded and the
Acrocanthosaurus would see the
continuation of this flooding as a Shao
sea was formed thanks to its wide
distribution Acrocanthosaurus coexisted
with many walks of life including some
well-known dinosaurs like soropelta
tenantasaurus dinonicus and the
previously mentioned sauropods as well
as iguanodonsia and OVI Raptor Soria And
in regards to the presence of dinonicus
scientists believe it posed next to no
threat to adult acrocanthus sources due
to the size difference there are also
non-dinosaurs including neo-sukians
mammals fish lizards and turtles yet
once again none of these creatures
specifically the carnivorous ones came
close to reaching the size of the
Acrocanthosaurus reinforcing it as the
king but this didn't mean it was immune
to threats as some specimens have been
found with damage to the skull and
neural spines but what caused the damage
is unknown perhaps rival
Acrocanthosaurus or struggle in large
prey and unfortunately all of its traits
and features that made it the apex
predator didn't protect it from its
eventual demise and the Acrocanthosaurus
eventually faded away before the lake
Cretaceous and before the emergence of
the T-Rex which is unfortunate as it
would be interesting to know how the two
2 would have interacted if they ever met
